README.md, before:

# Venice Dev Tools

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@venice-dev-tools/node.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@venice-dev-tools/node)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.8-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

The unOfficial SDK for the [Venice AI](https://venice.ai) platform. This SDK provides a simple, elegant, and type-safe way to integrate with Venice AI's API for chat completions, image generation, PDF processing, and more.

<div align="center">
  <img src="sunset.png" alt="Venice AI Generated Image" width="400"/>
</div>

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Install the SDK
npm install venice-dev-tools
```

> **Note:** While the SDK is structured as multiple packages internally, only the main package `venice-dev-tools` is currently published to npm. The individual packages (`@venice-dev-tools/node`, `@venice-dev-tools/web`, `@venice-dev-tools/core`) are not available as separate npm packages yet.

### Chat Completion Example

```javascript
// Import from the node package within the main package
import { VeniceNode } from 'venice-dev-tools/packages/node/dist';

// Initialize with your API key
const venice = new VeniceNode({ apiKey: 'your-api-key' });

// Generate a chat completion
const response = await venice.chat.createCompletion({
  model: 'llama-3.3-70b',
  messages: [{ role: 'user', content: 'Explain quantum computing in simple terms' }]
});

console.log(response.choices[0].message.content);
```

### Image Generation Example

```javascript
// Generate an image
const response = await venice.images.generate({
  model: 'fluently-xl',
  prompt: 'A beautiful sunset over Venice, Italy',
  width: 1024,
  height: 1024
});

// Save the image (Node.js only)
venice.saveImageToFile(response.images[0], 'venice-sunset.png');
```

### CLI Usage

```bash
# Install globally
npm install -g venice-dev-tools

# Set your API key
venice set-key YOUR_API_KEY --global

# Start an interactive chat session
venice chat interactive

# Generate an image
venice images generate --prompt "A beautiful sunset over Venice" --output sunset.png
```

> **Important:** If the `venice` command is not found after installation, you can run the install-cli script:
> ```bash
> # On Linux/macOS (may require sudo)
> sudo npx venice-dev-tools install-cli
> # Or directly from the installed package
> sudo node $(npm root -g)/venice-dev-tools/bin/install-cli.js
>
> # On Windows (run as Administrator)
> npx venice-dev-tools install-cli
> # Or directly from the installed package
> node %APPDATA%\npm\node_modules\venice-dev-tools\bin\install-cli.js
> ```
>
> Alternatively, you can manually create a symlink:
> ```bash
> # On Linux/macOS
> sudo ln -s $(npm root -g)/venice-dev-tools/bin/venice-cli.js /usr/local/bin/venice
>
> # On Windows (run as Administrator)
> mklink C:\Users\YourUsername\AppData\Roaming\npm\venice.cmd %APPDATA%\npm\node_modules\venice-dev-tools\bin\venice-cli.js
> ```

## ✨ Features

- **🤖 Advanced AI Models**: Access to Venice AI's powerful LLMs including Llama 3.3, Claude, and more
- **🖼️ Image Generation**: Create stunning images with models like Fluently XL
- **📄 PDF Processing**: Extract, analyze, and chat with PDF documents
- **🔄 Streaming Support**: Real-time streaming for chat completions
- **🌐 Cross-Platform**: Works in Node.js and browser environments
- **⚙️ CLI Tools**: Powerful command-line interface for all API functionality
- **🔒 Type Safety**: Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions
- **🧩 Extensible**: Register custom endpoints to extend functionality

## 📚 Documentation

### Comprehensive Guides

Visit our [documentation site](https://georgeglarson.github.io/venice-dev-tools/) for comprehensive guides, API references, and examples.

- [Getting Started Guide](https://georgeglarson.github.io/venice-dev-tools/guides/getting-started.html)
- [API Reference](https://georgeglarson.github.io/venice-dev-tools/api/client.html)
- [PDF Processing Guide](https://georgeglarson.github.io/venice-dev-tools/guides/pdf-processing.html)
- [Migration Guide (v1 to v2)](https://georgeglarson.github.io/venice-dev-tools/guides/migration-v1-to-v2.html)

### Code Examples

#### Streaming Chat Completions

```javascript
// Import from the node package within the main package
import { VeniceNode } from 'venice-dev-tools/packages/node/dist';

// Initialize with your API key
const venice = new VeniceNode({ apiKey: 'your-api-key' });

const stream = await venice.chat.createCompletionStream({
  model: 'llama-3.3-70b',
  messages: [{ role: 'user', content: 'Write a short poem about AI' }]
});

for await (const chunk of stream) {
  process.stdout.write(chunk.choices[0]?.delta?.content || '');
}
```

#### PDF Processing

```javascript
// Import from the node package within the main package
import { VeniceNode } from 'venice-dev-tools/packages/node/dist';

// Initialize with your API key
const venice = new VeniceNode({ apiKey: 'your-api-key' });

// Process a PDF file
const pdfResponse = await venice.pdf.process({
  file: './document.pdf',
  mode: 'extract'  // 'extract', 'analyze', or 'chat'
});

console.log(pdfResponse.content);

// Chat with a PDF
const chatResponse = await venice.pdf.chat({
  file: './document.pdf',
  query: 'Summarize the main points of this document'
});

console.log(chatResponse.answer);

// Process PDF with different modes
// 1. As binary data (default)
// Note: This doesn't convert the PDF to an image format, but sends it as binary data
const imageContent = await venice.utils.processFile('./document.pdf');

// 2. As extracted text
const textContent = await venice.utils.processFile('./document.pdf', { pdfMode: 'text' });

// 3. As both text and binary data
const bothContent = await venice.utils.processFile('./document.pdf', { pdfMode: 'both' });

// To properly convert PDF to image format, use a dedicated library
// Example with pdf-img-convert (you'll need to install it first):
// npm install pdf-img-convert
const pdfImgConvert = require('pdf-img-convert');
const pdfImages = await pdfImgConvert.convert('./document.pdf', {
  width: 1024,  // output image width in pixels
  height: 1450  // output image height in pixels
});
// pdfImages is an array of Buffer objects, one for each page
// Save the first page as PNG
fs.writeFileSync('document-page-1.png', pdfImages[0]);
```

#### CLI PDF Processing

```bash
# Process PDF as binary data (default mode)
venice chat completion --model llama-3.3-70b --attach document.pdf --prompt "Summarize this document"

# Process PDF as text
venice chat completion --model llama-3.3-70b --attach document.pdf --pdf-mode text --prompt "Summarize this document"

# Process PDF as both text and binary data
venice chat completion --model llama-3.3-70b --attach document.pdf --pdf-mode both --prompt "Summarize this document"

# For proper PDF-to-image conversion, you'll need to convert the PDF first:
# Using ImageMagick (if installed)
convert -density 150 document.pdf -quality 90 document.png
# Then use the converted image
venice chat completion --model llama-3.3-70b --attach document.png --prompt "Summarize this image"
```

#### Alternative: Multiple File Attachments

If you encounter issues with PDF processing modes, you can achieve similar functionality by attaching multiple files of different types:

```bash
# Attach both a text file and an image file
venice chat completion --model llama-3.3-70b --attach ./document.txt,./image.png --prompt "Analyze these files"
```

This approach allows the AI to analyze both textual content and visual elements, providing a comprehensive response.

#### Known Limitations

- The current implementation may have issues with text extraction from PDFs, showing an error about a missing file path
- For best results with PDFs containing both text and images, consider extracting the text separately and converting the PDF to images using external tools
- Then attach both the text file and image file(s) to your request

#### API Key Management

```javascript
// Import from the node package within the main package
import { VeniceNode } from 'venice-dev-tools/packages/node/dist';

// Initialize with your API key
const venice = new VeniceNode({ apiKey: 'your-api-key' });

// List all API keys
const keys = await venice.apiKeys.list();
console.log(keys);

// Create a new API key
const newKey = await venice.apiKeys.create({
  name: 'My New API Key',
  expiresAt: '2025-12-31'
});
```

## 🧰 Packages

This SDK is organized into multiple packages internally:

- **@venice-dev-tools/core**: Core functionality and types
- **@venice-dev-tools/node**: Node.js implementation with CLI
- **@venice-dev-tools/web**: Browser implementation

> **Note:** Currently, only the main package `venice-dev-tools` is published to npm. The individual packages are included within the main package but are not published separately. To use them, you need to import directly from their paths within the main package.

### TypeScript Configuration

If you're using TypeScript and encounter module resolution issues, add this to your tsconfig.json:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": ".",
    "paths": {
      "venice-dev-tools/*": ["./node_modules/venice-dev-tools/*"]
    }
  }
}
```

This helps TypeScript find the modules within the main package structure.

## 🛠️ Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/georgeglarson/venice-dev-tools.git
cd venice-dev-tools

# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Build all packages
pnpm build

# Run tests
pnpm test
```

## 📋 Requirements

- Node.js 18.0.0 or later
- A Venice AI API key ([Get one here](https://venice.ai))

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🔗 Links

- [Venice AI Official Website](https://venice.ai)
- [Venice AI API Documentation](https://api.venice.ai/doc/api/swagger.yaml)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/georgeglarson/venice-dev-tools)
- [npm Package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@venice-dev-tools/node)

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

This SDK is not officially affiliated with Venice AI. It is maintained by the community for the community.

Commit message:

Fix CLI installation issues and add fix scripts

README.md, after:

# Venice Dev Tools

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@venice-dev-tools/node.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@venice-dev-tools/node)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.8-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

The unOfficial SDK for the [Venice AI](https://venice.ai) platform. This SDK provides a simple, elegant, and type-safe way to integrate with Venice AI's API for chat completions, image generation, PDF processing, and more.

<div align="center">
  <img src="sunset.png" alt="Venice AI Generated Image" width="400"/>
</div>

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Install the SDK
npm install venice-dev-tools
```

> **Note:** While the SDK is structured as multiple packages internally, only the main package `venice-dev-tools` is currently published to npm. The individual packages (`@venice-dev-tools/node`, `@venice-dev-tools/web`, `@venice-dev-tools/core`) are not available as separate npm packages yet.

### Chat Completion Example

```javascript
// Import from the node package within the main package
import { VeniceNode } from 'venice-dev-tools/packages/node/dist';

// Initialize with your API key
const venice = new VeniceNode({ apiKey: 'your-api-key' });

// Generate a chat completion
const response = await venice.chat.createCompletion({
  model: 'llama-3.3-70b',
  messages: [{ role: 'user', content: 'Explain quantum computing in simple terms' }]
});

console.log(response.choices[0].message.content);
```

### Image Generation Example

```javascript
// Generate an image
const response = await venice.images.generate({
  model: 'fluently-xl',
  prompt: 'A beautiful sunset over Venice, Italy',
  width: 1024,
  height: 1024
});

// Save the image (Node.js only)
venice.saveImageToFile(response.images[0], 'venice-sunset.png');
```

### CLI Usage

```bash
# Install globally
npm install -g venice-dev-tools

# Set your API key
venice set-key YOUR_API_KEY 

# Start an interactive chat session
venice chat interactive

# Generate an image
venice images generate --prompt "A beautiful sunset over Venice" --output sunset.png
```

> **Important:** If the `venice` command is not found after installation, you can use one of these fix scripts:
>
> **Option 1: Download and run the fix script (requires sudo):**
> ```bash
> # Download the fix script
> curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/georgeglarson/venice-dev-tools/main/scripts/fix-venice-cli.sh
> # Make it executable
> chmod +x fix-venice-cli.sh
> # Run it (requires sudo)
> sudo ./fix-venice-cli.sh
> ```
>
> **Option 2: Download and run the simple fix script (no sudo required):**
> ```bash
> # Download the simple fix script
> curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/georgeglarson/venice-dev-tools/main/scripts/fix-venice-cli-simple.sh
> # Make it executable
> chmod +x fix-venice-cli-simple.sh
> # Run it
> ./fix-venice-cli-simple.sh
> ```
>
> **Option 3: Run the fix-cli script from the package:**
> ```bash
> # Run the fix-cli script
> npm explore venice-dev-tools -- npm run fix-cli
> ```
>
> **Option 4: Manually create a symlink:**
> ```bash
> # On Linux/macOS
> sudo ln -s $(npm root -g)/venice-dev-tools/bin/venice-cli.js /usr/local/bin/venice
>
> # On Windows (run as Administrator)
> mklink C:\Users\YourUsername\AppData\Roaming\npm\venice.cmd %APPDATA%\npm\node_modules\venice-dev-tools\bin\venice-cli.js
> ```

## ✨ Features

- **🤖 Advanced AI Models**: Access to Venice AI's powerful LLMs including Llama 3.3, Claude, and more
- **🖼️ Image Generation**: Create stunning images with models like Fluently XL
- **📄 PDF Processing**: Extract, analyze, and chat with PDF documents
- **🔄 Streaming Support**: Real-time streaming for chat completions
- **🌐 Cross-Platform**: Works in Node.js and browser environments
- **⚙️ CLI Tools**: Powerful command-line interface for all API functionality
- **🔒 Type Safety**: Full TypeScript support with comprehensive type definitions
- **🧩 Extensible**: Register custom endpoints to extend functionality

## 📚 Documentation

### Comprehensive Guides

Visit our [documentation site](https://georgeglarson.github.io/venice-dev-tools/) for comprehensive guides, API references, and examples.

- [Getting Started Guide](https://georgeglarson.github.io/venice-dev-tools/guides/getting-started.html)
- [API Reference](https://georgeglarson.github.io/venice-dev-tools/api/client.html)
- [PDF Processing Guide](https://georgeglarson.github.io/venice-dev-tools/guides/pdf-processing.html)
- [Migration Guide (v1 to v2)](https://georgeglarson.github.io/venice-dev-tools/guides/migration-v1-to-v2.html)

### Code Examples

#### Streaming Chat Completions

```javascript
// Import from the node package within the main package
import { VeniceNode } from 'venice-dev-tools/packages/node/dist';

// Initialize with your API key
const venice = new VeniceNode({ apiKey: 'your-api-key' });

const stream = await venice.chat.createCompletionStream({
  model: 'llama-3.3-70b',
  messages: [{ role: 'user', content: 'Write a short poem about AI' }]
});

for await (const chunk of stream) {
  process.stdout.write(chunk.choices[0]?.delta?.content || '');
}
```

#### PDF Processing

```javascript
// Import from the node package within the main package
import { VeniceNode } from 'venice-dev-tools/packages/node/dist';

// Initialize with your API key
const venice = new VeniceNode({ apiKey: 'your-api-key' });

// Process a PDF file
const pdfResponse = await venice.pdf.process({
  file: './document.pdf',
  mode: 'extract'  // 'extract', 'analyze', or 'chat'
});

console.log(pdfResponse.content);

// Chat with a PDF
const chatResponse = await venice.pdf.chat({
  file: './document.pdf',
  query: 'Summarize the main points of this document'
});

console.log(chatResponse.answer);

// Process PDF with different modes
// 1. As binary data (default)
// Note: This doesn't convert the PDF to an image format, but sends it as binary data
const imageContent = await venice.utils.processFile('./document.pdf');

// 2. As extracted text
const textContent = await venice.utils.processFile('./document.pdf', { pdfMode: 'text' });

// 3. As both text and binary data
const bothContent = await venice.utils.processFile('./document.pdf', { pdfMode: 'both' });

// To properly convert PDF to image format, use a dedicated library
// Example with pdf-img-convert (you'll need to install it first):
// npm install pdf-img-convert
const pdfImgConvert = require('pdf-img-convert');
const pdfImages = await pdfImgConvert.convert('./document.pdf', {
  width: 1024,  // output image width in pixels
  height: 1450  // output image height in pixels
});
// pdfImages is an array of Buffer objects, one for each page
// Save the first page as PNG
fs.writeFileSync('document-page-1.png', pdfImages[0]);
```

#### CLI PDF Processing

```bash
# Process PDF as binary data (default mode)
venice chat completion --model llama-3.3-70b --attach document.pdf --prompt "Summarize this document"

# Process PDF as text
venice chat completion --model llama-3.3-70b --attach document.pdf --pdf-mode text --prompt "Summarize this document"

# Process PDF as both text and binary data
venice chat completion --model llama-3.3-70b --attach document.pdf --pdf-mode both --prompt "Summarize this document"

# For proper PDF-to-image conversion, you'll need to convert the PDF first:
# Using ImageMagick (if installed)
convert -density 150 document.pdf -quality 90 document.png
# Then use the converted image
venice chat completion --model llama-3.3-70b --attach document.png --prompt "Summarize this image"
```

#### Alternative: Multiple File Attachments

If you encounter issues with PDF processing modes, you can achieve similar functionality by attaching multiple files of different types:

```bash
# Attach both a text file and an image file
venice chat completion --model llama-3.3-70b --attach ./document.txt,./image.png --prompt "Analyze these files"
```

This approach allows the AI to analyze both textual content and visual elements, providing a comprehensive response.

#### Known Limitations

- The current implementation may have issues with text extraction from PDFs, showing an error about a missing file path
- For best results with PDFs containing both text and images, consider extracting the text separately and converting the PDF to images using external tools
- Then attach both the text file and image file(s) to your request

#### API Key Management

```javascript
// Import from the node package within the main package
import { VeniceNode } from 'venice-dev-tools/packages/node/dist';

// Initialize with your API key
const venice = new VeniceNode({ apiKey: 'your-api-key' });

// List all API keys
const keys = await venice.apiKeys.list();
console.log(keys);

// Create a new API key
const newKey = await venice.apiKeys.create({
  name: 'My New API Key',
  expiresAt: '2025-12-31'
});
```

## 🧰 Packages

This SDK is organized into multiple packages internally:

- **@venice-dev-tools/core**: Core functionality and types
- **@venice-dev-tools/node**: Node.js implementation with CLI
- **@venice-dev-tools/web**: Browser implementation

> **Note:** Currently, only the main package `venice-dev-tools` is published to npm. The individual packages are included within the main package but are not published separately. To use them, you need to import directly from their paths within the main package.

### TypeScript Configuration

If you're using TypeScript and encounter module resolution issues, add this to your tsconfig.json:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "baseUrl": ".",
    "paths": {
      "venice-dev-tools/*": ["./node_modules/venice-dev-tools/*"]
    }
  }
}
```

This helps TypeScript find the modules within the main package structure.

## 🛠️ Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/georgeglarson/venice-dev-tools.git
cd venice-dev-tools

# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Build all packages
pnpm build

# Run tests
pnpm test
```

## 📋 Requirements

- Node.js 18.0.0 or later
- A Venice AI API key ([Get one here](https://venice.ai))

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🔗 Links

- [Venice AI Official Website](https://venice.ai)
- [Venice AI API Documentation](https://api.venice.ai/doc/api/swagger.yaml)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/georgeglarson/venice-dev-tools)
- [npm Package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@venice-dev-tools/node)

## 🙏 Acknowledgements

This SDK is not officially affiliated with Venice AI. It is maintained by the community for the community.
